---
layout: post
title: 'VIM cheatsheet'

---

Common vim commands
--------------------


				"+y, "*y             //yank to system clipboard depending what os you are on
				
				"_y                  //yank into black hole
				
				ma                   //mark a
				
				'a                   //go to mark a
				
				/something           //search forwards for something, press n for next
				
				?something           //search backwards for something, press n for next
				
				/something\|other    //search forwards for something, OR other
				
				/something\&other    //search forwards for something, AND other
				
				/\/                  //search forwards Wordboundary.  Wont match johna..
				
				\v                   //find exactly four numbers like 1234. Very magic mode
				
				gf                  //open filename under cursor
				
				g;                   //previous position of edit
				
				g,                   //next position of exit
				
				W                    //next word by whitespace, not .,
				
				H                    //head (top)
				
				M                    //middle of file
				
				vmotion              //select letter under cursor plus motion
				
				V                    //Visual line mode
				
				gv                   //reselect last selected text
				
				,z                   //highlight clolumn and line mapped in ~/.vimrc with nnoremap ,z set cursorline! cursorcolumn!
				
				[s                   //go to next spelling mistake
				
				z=                   //Spelling correction list long
				
				1z=                  //Spelling correction select first suggestion
				
				zg                   //Add word to whitelist
				
				jj                   //escape insert mode. mapped in .vimrc with: inoremap jj 
				
				g/^/.t               //duplicate every line in file --wow
				
				g/^error/ . w >>     ~/home/errors.txt //match output to separate file
				
				y:"                  //pull visuall selected text into commandline.  is control key R
				
				cs"'                 //change surrounding from double quote to single
				
				ds"'                 //delete surrounding
				
				dst                  //delete surrounding tag
				
				yy                   //yank line
				
				p                    //put (paste)
				
				2"p                  //put second selected item
				
				ysW(                 //surround word with ( -
				
				vs(                  //surround visual selection with ( -
				
				gm                   //go to middle of line horizontally
				
				g*                   //partial match of word
				
				'"                   //go to last edit position
				
				gp                   // put but leave cursor under 
				
				R                    // Replace mode 
				
				ctrl e               // scroll down
				
				z                    //Carriage return = put current line at the top of the screen
				
				z. =                 //put current line in the middle of the screen
				
				z- =                 //put current line at the bottom of the screen
				
				Ctrl E               //insert character from below the cursor
				
				Ctrl Y               //Insert character from above the cursor
				
				Ctrl R               //Insert last insert mode text 
				
				Ctrl X               //Complete the word before the cursor / modes
				
				Ctrl H               //Remove character to the left
				
				o                    //in visual mode changes cursor position vertically
				
				use b instead of ()
				
				use inner sentence/ inner paragraph ffs
				
				You can have abbreviations for the commnad line
				
				Ctrl N               //word completion backwards
				
				set cpt=.,w,b,u,t,i // set the options for auto complete
				
				ga                   //show ascii character under cursor
				
				ve                   //show version and compilation options
				
				
				
				Commandline
				
				:se spell!           //toggle spelling 
				
				:se spellang=en_gb   // set your locale for spell checking
				
				:set ft?             //check filetype
				
				:g/span.*div/        //Display all line numbers for search results
				
				:s filename          //split
				
				:vsp filename        //vertical split
				
				:res -10             //reduce space of split window by 10 lines
				
				:+                   //increase split window by 1 line
				
				:-                   //reduce split window by 1 line
				
				:tabe filename       //file open in new tab
				
				:tabc                //tabclose
				
				:set number          //display line numbers. mapped with n
				
				:set list            //show hidden characters.
				
				:set nonumber        //turn off line numbers
				
				:tabn                //next tab
				
				:cab goo doo
				
				:opt                 //shows you some cool interactive help
				
				:map to show all your key mappings
				
				:dig =               //view digraph  //need to check this
				
				:r! command          //insert the output of a command
				
				:reg =               //show registers
				
				:ce =                //center for visually selected text
				
				:marks               //show all current marks
				
				:buffers             //show all buffers
				
				:ju                  //print jump list
				
				:w !sudo tee %       //Save when you forgot to sudo
				
				:g/                  ^/exe ".w ".line(".").".txt" //each line of file extracted to file with line number as title
				
				:let @a=@/           //copy last search command to register a, or whatever register.
				
				:%s=  *$==           // delete end of line blanks
				
				:%                   s/^\(.*\)\(\n\1\)\+$/\1/  // delete multiple duplicate lines --
				
				:sor                 //Sort file
				
				:vmap z :%s/\*\>/     //Pull visually highlighted text into lhs of substitute. --
