---
layout: post
title: 2014, A skillset wishlist.
description: These are the areas I would like to focus on in 2014

---


2013 has been a great year for doing what I love, which is coding.
I learned a lot, as any programmer does in a year and perhaps most significant has been switching to Ruby as my main programming language.

I have spent a bit of time thinking about what I would like to achieve in 2014, and feel that some really stand out.
This list is far from comprehensive and is more like a landslide of nice to have skills.

###Emacs/Elisp
  I have been meaning to learn more Emacs for a while now, but have not found the time to do so.
  I am a happy Vim user, but feel that one must know both one true editors to be able to choose one.
  Not only that but you have to know what you are missing to even realise that it could benefit your work flow.

###Vim and Dotfiles
  Always more Vim ;)
  I would like to learn to tame the wild Vimscript.
  There are testing frameworks for Vimscript and I will use this, and learning this test first would be ideal.

  Since I moved to OSX from Arch Linux, my dotfile configuration styles have changed a bit.
  It has been surprisingly successful.  Focus in 2014 will be to fix some Tmux quirks and to start benchmarking script times.
  My setup has slowed down a bit, and I need to get on top of that before it gets worse.

###Puppet, Cloudfoundry, BOSH
  My devops skills could do with a lot of work period.

###Ruby
  I love Ruby, and there is a way to go before I am able to harness all the power provided by the language.
  This will be the language that I focus on the most in 2014.

###Steno
  A big discovery in 2013 has been Steno, and Plover.
  This is an exciting unexplored new world with many possibilities for being a proficient typist.

###Testing
  I am a strong believer in TDD/BDD and feel that my Javascript could do with more testing.
  I will use Jasmin and Poltergeist to test this.

###Work work
  I am working on an exciting project at the moment, and my main goal has been to refactor the codebase and get tests around it.
  It is quite a big codebase, and it has been really fun/challenging to get it all tested.

  I read "Dealing Effectively with legacy code" by Micheal Feathers, which has been a great help.

  There is still much of this project codebase that is untested, especially the Javascript.
  Also just to make this Rails app a lean and mean fighting machine, with every optimisation and performance hack implemented.

###Blogging
  I want to release at least one good personal blog post, and one work blog post each month.
  That is the bare minimum, and I hope to produce way more than this.

###OSS
  They might as well put little tumbleweed gifs all over my Github page.
  This is disgraceful, and I need to start contributing more.

  Same goes for Stack Overflow.

###Books
  [Design patterns : elements of reusable object-oriented software](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Design_Patterns)
  Clean Code
  The well grounded Rubyist
  Eloquent Ruby
  Distributed Programming with Ruby
  Understanding Computation

